Hi welcome back on the last video we learn how to add properties to our classes and how to use those
properties.
Were there instances and using methods.
Now we also learn how to reference the car class or any class by using the word or the key word called
does.
We had a lot of fun on the last video.
I hope you did because I did.
Now on this video we're going to be learning how to what do you know the title we are going to be learning
about inheritance.
Right now you got to pay a lot of attention to this.
This video here because inheritance is something super important in opii object oriented programming.
Right.
So when we deal with classes we can we know that we can use the properties inside of the class with
other methods and we can use other functionalities of this class with the methods right within the methods.
Now you know that we can also create different classes.
So anyway before we do that let's go ahead and do a Save As before I get into any more deeper than what
I'm getting right now because I want to show you visually what I'm trying to do.
So class let's call this.
This will save us on this and call it class inheritance and Harrod inheritance.
I think I'm trying to is very tense.
There we go.
I think I'm I think I got it right.
This is the key word there that I don't use much or I don't use the word inheritance.
But anyways.
So so now we have a card class right here.
I tell you what let's create another class.
How about that.
Let's delete all this.
Let's delete all of it.
And let's go down here and create another class.
So I'm going to create another class called class and what I want to create another class called plain.
Let's create a plane why not right.
All right.
Perfect.
Now we can also let's just do something here.
All right.
Well let's first let's check if this class exists right.
How many classes we have.
If class let's just use this method Clausewitz's.
And let's just find our ray plane.
Actually we need to capitalize this or I remember that.
And then we need to main food club class naming here and we're just going to echo what he does
just to make sure that is everything is working as expected.
It does.
All right so we know that it does exist.
All right.
Perfect.
So we have a new class here going.
Let me just actually comment this out that way you can use if you want.
So now what is class inheritance topic is is that we could use another class inherit everything that
this class has its properties its methods and everything else that we have inside right.
Right now we just have properties and methods.
So lets go ahead and use a word that is going to extend.
Its going to inherit everything.
So the key word is class plane plane extends.
This is the key word extends.
There we go car.
Thats it.
Now we have all this functionality inside this new class.
Don't believe me.
It is very simple to prove it.
Let's let's go ahead a stance.
This new class.
Right.
How about that.
So what I'm going to do is actually I'm going to say jet right jet new plane because this is the new
got instantiate this class.
Right.
So now I could say this plane of course is silly class but these new plane has how many wheels.
Well let's equil that for us re eco wheels.
So let's see that all look that.
We have four wheels and these new and then let me just comment this.
So you know that that's the one that we are using.
As you can see here.
So he inherited wheels here for.
Right.
And look at this.
Let's use a method.
Why not let's use this method here and see what what it does.
So let's go ahead and use that to just call the method change the wheels to turn the color.
We can even use the method of the class.
Right.
Perfect.
So you see that I didn't put anything here.
This class is empty right now.
The best thing about it is that I can come here inside this class and I say you know what I want this
wheels now to be a different value.
How about that.
So is this do that this change.
The answer is we use 220 now.
And of course let's just take that out.
And as you can see here right.
We change it to 20.
So what we can do is we can override its parent.
Right.
Because this is the parent right.
It's parents value we can well whatever we think we can come back.
Come down to the children class right and change the value of it we can override it.
We can even override this one we can override methods we can override whatever we want we can create
another matter that will override this one.
I mean that there is no limit on the things that we can do here.
All right.
So know that we can do that now.
So anyways I hope I'm going to make this video sure and I'm going to make it too long so I hope you
were able to to grasp this concept of classing heritance because it is very important and we will be
using there a lot since it's really useful to do that.
Think about it.
You don't you have all these classes of these properties and methods inside a class and you can just
create another class and have all this functionality working right there in that class in that new class.
Right.
Perfect.
Anyways I see you in the next video and hopefully you'll learn something good from this one and you
can Graf's grasp the concept.
All right take care.